>>Hello, and welcome to the
final episode of the Ubuntu
Contribution workshop,
shot here in location
at Gaia in Boulder, Colorado.
Over the last two days, we've
shared some amazing philosophy
about a world without
money and discussed
the implementation of it.
And in this episode, we're going
to really take this thing home
and answer any more unfinished
questions that might still
be lingering in people's minds
or any hesitation that might
still be alive in your hearts.
So what I'd like to
do is to start off
with by saying to you is please
make a note of what you think
is possibly the most difficult
or insurmountable hurdle we
need to cross in a
world without money?
Or how will this or that work
in this utopian world of ours?
And remember, utopian
is a good word, right?
It's not a bad word.
We should use it more often.
And some people say, oh, this
sounds like a utopian idea.
And I say, yeah, it is.
It's a good idea.
Utopian.
Let's say it over
and over again.
So come up with what you think
is the most difficult hurdle
for us to cross in a
world without money
or how would this possibly work?
Or how are we going to
solve these problems?
Because I'd like us to
leave here today with being
able to answer any
kind of problem
that we can throw or
imagine in this environment.
What I'd also like
to continue is
some of the frequently
asked questions
that we want to revisit and
see if we can answer those
with a lot more
ease at this stage,
without me prompting
anybody, so that it actually
comes from you and not from me.
But before we get
there, let's look
at a few of the final subjects
that we haven't reached yet.
And just remind us where
we left off previously.
In a world of Ubuntu
and Contributionism,
once we implement this
ideology and this philosophy
and this world of abundance
where everything is possible
because we choose to
do it so, everything
becomes recyclable,
renewable, and reusable.
And that is a very important
point of departure for us
here to kickstart
this final episode.
No more pollution, no more
destroying our planet,
no more being forced to live
in metropolitan urban jungles,
where people have been
really herded and forced
to live together, mostly
against their will,
because of social pressures and
circumstances that drove them
there beyond what normally
would be their choice,
looking for jobs,
looking for careers,
looking for opportunities
that they can't find out
in the country where
people would prefer
to stay more often than not.
So the question is, how do
we include city slickers
in this philosophy?
And that's an interesting
way of looking and trying
to bring the people that live
in the metropolitan areas
and urban jungles, how would
they interact and interface
with these communities
of abundance
that we're going to start
to create in the small towns
and villages?
What happens to the millions of
people that live in the cities?
And this is an
interesting thing,
because the people
that live in the cities
all have skills and talents.
They are all good at something.
They don't always do
what they're good at,
but what happens quite often
with people in the cities
is that they have a cottage
in the country, isn't it?
And they can't wait
for the long weekend
so they can get in
their car and escape
to their cottage in the country.
So just imagine the
scenario, right?
So you've got a
cottage in the country,
and you drive out
to your cottage
in the country on
one long weekend.
And you suddenly discover
that the town that you've
got your cottage in has become
a Ubuntu, or a Contributionist
community.
And the people have their
own supply of electricity.
And you weren't
even aware of this,
because you haven't been there
for six months, because you've
been so busy caught up in
the rat race in the city.
And you arrive in
your little town,
only to find that they've
got their own supply
of electricity.
They've got all these community
projects that they've set up.
And everybody is getting
everything for free,
because they've set it up
to benefit the community.
And you're a part
of that community,
because you have a house there.
And they suddenly call
you into the council
of elders or the group that is
managing or guiding that town
and that community and
say, Michael, listen.
You're a homeowner here and
you belong to our community,
so we'd like to tell you
about the latest developments.
And we'd like you to know that
you can benefit from everything
that we've set up and created
here, but all you have to do
is participate in one of
the community projects.
What are you going to say?
What are you going to do?
And well, the
question is probably
going to be firstly, if you're
new to this, well, what's
in it for me?
What do I have to do?
And what do I get in return?
Because that's how
we think, right?
Well, what's in it for me?
And the answer is-- you all
know the answer already, right?
Well, first of all, you're
going to get free electricity.
And you can run your
household and don't
worry about paying
electricity ever again.
And I think everybody will
be pleasantly surprised
when they get confronted
by that kind of offer.
And say, what?
Really?
I mean, so what do I have to
do for that free electricity?
And the answer is well,
just, these are the projects
that we've set up.
And all you need
to do is every time
you come out, spend
three hours per week
in one of these
community projects.
And I think the answer
to that is going
to be, wow, that's amazing.
And then what else?
What else?
Are there any other benefits?
And the answer is yeah.
Well, if you spend
three hours a week
in one of the
projects, that means
that you can get whatever else
we're creating and developing.
That means food and
clean water and we've
got a textile factory, so
you can get some fabrics
and you can make
clothing and whatever.
And you start
realizing, hold on.
So I live in the city,
I work like a slave.
And suddenly, when I come
out to my little cottage
in the country, I can work
for three hours a week
in these community
projects and I can actually
live for free in my little town
in my cottage in the country.
So the question is going to
start playing on your mind
as to why am I going to go
back to the city, right?
So what's going to happen,
I think, as this unfolds,
I have no idea how
it will unfold.
But something along
these lines, where
people are going to escape
to the little cottage
in the country, and at
some stage they're just
going to stay there.
They're going to say,
well, why the hell am
I going to go back to the city?
To do what?
Let me sell my place
in the city-- that's
if they have a place--
or just give up the rent
and move into my little
cottage in the country
and live in paradise
and help to contribute
towards that community,
because I'm already
getting all the benefits.
And that's an interesting
way of looking
at what will happen to
people in the city moving out
to the country.
The other thing is people,
young people, that are maybe
not married or individuals that
have got skills and talents,
working farms have become
quite popular, right?
People go on holiday
and they no longer just
want to go on holiday
and become observers
on a tourist bus looking
at all the people
in their environment, which is
like a really strange voyeur
kind of mentality, right?
And people in a zoo, right?
On a bus looking at the
animals in their homes
and doing things
while the tourist bus
goes through your town.
I've always found
that really bizarre.
But so this is why these
working farms have become quite
a major thing around the world.
People want to go to another
country or a town or a village
and integrate, become
part of that community,
and go and do something.
And that's how you meet people.
You get to know about
the community, the people
in the town, and the
village, and understand
a little bit more about it.
So you actually go do something.
So that's exactly what
will happen as well.
So these towns and
communities will
become like working farms
or working villages,
where the people in
the city are going
to be given the opportunity
to come out there.
And what are they going
to get in exchange?
Come out for the weekend,
work for three hours in one
of the community projects,
and you get free accommodation
and free food.
So that's a win-win situation
for everybody, isn't it?
So slowly but
surely, you're going
to get these city
slickers that work
in offices and
these horrible jobs
that they don't really like.
And they're going
to start ascribing
more and more to these little
towns all over the place.
And the more of these
little towns there are,
the more opportunity is
going to be presented
to people that live in cities.
So well, this weekend
I'm going to go
to that little town over there.
Next weekend, I'm
flying over there.
And then I'm going to go there.
And sooner or
later, they're going
to find a town that they
fall in love with, say wow,
I love this place.
I don't want to go
back to the city.
And they're going to be
given an opportunity.
Well, you don't have
to go back to the city.
You can stay in our community.
Just contribute to the projects.
So this is how I think,
something like this,
we will start getting the
people to leave the cities
and feel free to go
integrate into small towns
and small communities,
because of the opportunities
that naturally get presented.
And they will bring their
own set of talents and skills
to that community that
will automatically benefit
the people in that community.
So everybody benefits.
It is a win-win
situation for everyone.
There will be other
things that happen that we
can't predict right now.
And that's the beauty of this.
It is that unknown factor.
And that's what makes
it even more exciting.
And this will only be
exposed and show itself
once we start actually doing
this in these communities.
That's when it
becomes so exciting.
So another interesting
area of opportunity
is in countries that have
tribal leaders and tribal lands.
And that includes the United
States, Canada, South Africa,
Australia, and other
parts of the world,
South America, countries
that have tribal leaders
and tribal lands.
Because many of
these tribal leaders
have already been under
attack by their governments.
Their land is
constantly being stolen,
they are under constant threat
of their tribal land being
taken away from them,
and d being bribed
and cheated out of their land.
And especially in
South Africa, where
there are around 200 tribal
lands and tribal chiefs
and tribal leaders, many of them
have been bribed and corrupted
by the government.
And there's a lot of
loss of this tribal land
that the government
has really stolen
from these tribal leaders.
But many of them are
wise to this activity
of the government.
And they are holding
onto their tribal land.
But it's not easy, because
many of these tribal chiefs
and leaders are very poor.
They're very poor individuals.
And they have very little.
And in most
instances, their lands
have been destroyed
by the government--
again, by design, to
force the people to leave
the tribal lands to move to
the cities in search of jobs.
And that's when they
get stuck and trapped
in those metropolitan
jungles and become slaves
to the system.
So the tribal leaders
are more and more
increasingly losing people
from the tribal lands that
are leaving because
there's very little to do
and they have no idea how to
solve that problem they haven't
figured this out, that
we've discussed here,
how easy it is when you start
working together, right?
And so they are losing people,
especially young people
are being lured to the cities.
And they're becoming
leaders to nobody.
And all this tribal land--
the most beautiful land
that you can imagine.
So many of these
leaders have now
been finding out
about what we're
doing with Ubuntu and this
philosophy and they love it,
because they realize that this
can save their tribal lands
and help bring the people
back to their communities
to start participating in
this collective, cooperative
structure to bring abundance to
the people in the tribal lands
and reactivate the tribal lands.
So this is a really
interesting opportunity,
because also in
the tribal lands,
it's the chief that
makes the final decision.
You don't have to
ask permission.
win an election.
You don't have to
go to the polls.
You just have an
agreement with the chief
and the tribal leaders say
this is what we'd like to do.
And then the chief
can call a meeting
of all the elders and
the headmen and say,
this is what I propose we do.
And I must tell you
that at this stage,
there are probably around
12 tribal leaders in South
Africa that have either
requested a meeting with me
and I've already met with
one or two or three of them.
The interest is
growing so quickly
that I'm absolutely amazed.
I believe the same
can happen in the USA,
in the Native American
tribal lands, and Canada,
and Australia, and South
American countries,
wherever there are still
tribal leaders that
hold on to the pride of
their natural custodianship.
So I'm going to just
leave that there,
because this is an
evolving process.
This is something
that's in development.
Obviously it's going to
require money and funding,
setting up the community
projects in those tribal lands,
because those people
are all very poor.
These are the poorest
of the poor people.
They have very little.
This is going to be an
interesting challenge.
But we'll see how this unfolds.
And this is possibly
where international
or global crowdfunding
could come into play.
Or this is where you can find
these conscious millionaires
or billionaires that say, wow.
I want to help this tribal,
this traditional chief here,
and come and put some money into
setting up these projects that
really start to help the people
in these very, very rural areas
and create those pockets
of abundance that
start to affect all the other
tribal lands around them.
There's quite a
lot of stuff that
needs to be done to really
take the ownership back.
For example, one
of the suggestions
I've made to the
one chief is that we
make signs, little billboards,
that we actually put up
on all the roads as you enter
that traditional land to say,
you're entering the tribal
land of chief so-and-so,
and have a picture of
him, and show the land,
show the geographical
area of that tribal land.
So when people drive
in there, they actually
know that you're driving
into the tribal land.
Because at the moment,
it's not designated.
Nobody knows.
So it's this gray area.
So just by doing
that, it's taking back
and claiming the land
for those tribal leaders
is a very important
point of departure.
And that automatically
gives them
a sense of more pride
and elevating them
to the prominent
status that they
should hold in their community.
This is a really exciting and
challenging, at the same time
challenging, opportunity
that faces us, especially
in South Africa, where there
is an absolute determination
to destroy the tribal chiefs
and the tribal leaders
and take the land away
from them and put it
into the hands of
the government.
We need to stop
that at all costs.
This is just one of the recent
tribal activities in our town.
There was a coronation.
A new chief was appointed.
Just some of the ceremonies
and activities that took
place and I was an invited
special guest at this event.
At this stage, I'd like to come
back to the 13 frequently asked
questions.
Well, actually more than 13.
And just go through
them and see if there
are any these
questions that you'd
like to have a stab at that
we didn't answer before.
I think we sort of
covered most of them.
I'm just-- who's going
to shovel the crap?
I think we've dealt
with that, right?
If everything is free, I'll just
sit on my ass and do nothing
and people must bring me stuff.
I think, does anybody
have a problem with it?
We all now know, right?
We've gone beyond
wondering how are we
going to solve this, right?
The 50 Ferraris and 20
mansions is a beautiful one.
Anybody still have
a problem with
that, not really understanding
how we deal with that?
Are we going back
to the dark ages?
Really?
Is that a valid question?
No, I think we've
made it very clear
that we're going to the stars.
We're unlocking the
infinite potential
of the human spirit of
creation and creativity
by taking away the money.
Is this a lawless society?
Absolutely not.
We have our council
of elders that
creates the structure
and the foundation
and the guidance
for our community.
But the laws are made by
the people of the community,
not the council of elders.
They don't make the laws.
They just guide
and apply the laws
that are made by the people.
So it's not a lawless society.
In fact, in a world
with infinite freedom
comes a responsibility
of infinite control.
But control within
the guidelines
that we've set
for ourselves, not
controlled by somebody outside
of us that controls us.
So we set the guidelines
for ourselves.
And we know what is
good for our community
and what's bad
for our community.
And therefore, it will
be imposed by ourselves
on ourselves.
We become our own
disciplinarians,
if you can use that
word, to make sure
that we don't step out
of line or infringe
on the rights of anybody
else in our community.
>>I guess a lot of the
teenagers are rebellious and are
getting out of control, right?
And they've destroyed some of
the facilities that are close
to and in your community,
and you're looking forward
to rebuilding them.
But somebody has
vandalized a great deal
and a great many things.
>>You don't have that kind
of vandalism in societies
where you have a beautiful
home built for you by the best
architects that money can't
buy, by the best builders
that money can't buy,
by the best materials
that money can't buy.
The way you want it
built for yourself--
either by the river
up on the mountain,
in a community of
your own choice.
Vandalism and the
rebellion doesn't even
enter the equation.
That is completely not part of--
>>I just live in a city
called Chicago and things can
be pretty crazy there.
>>So this is again why
people in the cities
are going to probably make
a very quick move away
from the cities into
these small towns
where we take control
of our communities,
we know everybody
in the community,
we've collectively
decided what we're doing,
we have a council of elders
that manages and controls
the situation on
behalf of the people.
That council of elders
can be changed every day
if necessary by the people if
one of them steps out of line.
It's not an elected
parliament that
has to be there for
four years and there's
nothing you can do about them.
This is an important point
that I may not have mentioned.
The council of elders is
there by choice of the people.
And if any one of those
members of the council
is seen to be
suspicious or doing
things that is not
necessarily for the benefit
of the whole community, the
community votes him out, says,
sorry, we don't think you
deserve to be on the council
anymore because you've
done x, y, and z.
And we're going to
replace you by John,
who's an honorable, respectable
member of our community.
So it's absolute control of the
community of their own destiny,
of what they do on
a day to day basis,
and the structures and
the legal guidelines
they set for themselves.
How are they going to deal
with rebellious teenagers?
I have no idea.
It's up to that
community to decide.
Are we going to have
rebellious teenagers?
In the beginning, maybe.
But they'll be dealt
with in the way
that that community decides.
As time goes by, I
don't think we're
going to have rebellious
anybody, because people are
so happy, fulfilling
their lives,
living their lives, not having
the stresses and the anxieties
and the fears that we
grow up with today.
That is not part of
our reality anymore.
And therefore, we
can't even begin
to imagine how this balanced
and integrated society
and community is going to
look 20 years from now.
It's almost impossible
for us to try and project
that in this capitalist,
oppressive society
we find ourselves in today.
>>There's a couple of things
about all the questions
that have been kind
of coming up for me
since we saw this slide first.
And for me, I don't
have a problem
seeing what the answers
can be in the future
when the Ubuntu
community is together.
Where I see the
challenge is, how
do we talk to people
to bridge that gap?
And on the issue of
lawlessness, some
of the problems I think
we're going to face
are that the new laws that we
form from this ground to being
will look so different from
what a law looks like now
that we won't be
able to recognize it.
Because one of the
things I've put
into a d curriculum for
kids that I've written
is that I always ask them,
where do rules come from?
And they say, parents and
teachers and principals.
And I say, well, surprise.
That's not where
rules come from.
Rules come through people, but
they don't come from people.
Rules actually come from goals.
As a matter of fact,
you can't write a rule
unless you have a goal in mind.
It's actually physically
impossible to do.
So the ground of
being and the goals
are so different from a
capitalist and the me, me, me
society to a group
society, it was
one of the things that even
knowing this tripped me up
for a little bit,
because I kept looking
for the rule in the old form.
And then I realized, it's
not rule in the old form.
It's process.
It's essentially the
difference of looking
from one end of the
telescope or the other.
And when you're looking through
the right end of the telescope,
then you have Ubuntu.
When you're looking
at it backwards,
you've got the other crazy,
economic, hierarchical, bad
hierarchical systems.
So I think the biggest
challenge that I
see is learning this language
and inventing the language,
so that we can bridge that
gap and bridge it faster.
Because as you said,
a few years ago,
it took a long time to
convince somebody of this work.
And now, it's going faster.
We're going to have to
learn new terms, new words,
and learn how to
bridge that gap.
And I think part of
bridging that gap
is what we're going to
need in those communities,
because we don't
bridge gaps now.
We beat people up.
So the challenge
is one of language.
>>That's great, Joan.
Thanks for bringing that up.
And language is a problem.
I mean, I catch myself all the
time doing these workshops.
I still somehow,
every now and then,
use expressions that
I've told myself
not to use, and realize,
no, you can't say that,
because this is old paradigm.
This doesn't apply
to where we're going.
And I'll constantly try and find
new expressions and new words
or ways to describe
things without falling
into the trap of using the
wrong words or expressions
or definitions.
And it's not easy, because we're
creating a whole new reality
that was going to require new
descriptions, new definitions,
new words.
And it's great.
It's a great challenge for us.
>>One of the things we found in
the projects-based curriculum
that I did throughout
the LA school system
was after the kids did the rules
and agreements module where
they came to understand
that rules came from goals,
whole campuses transformed
within 30 days of just doing
one fourth and
fifth grade class.
Because for example, in the
San Fernando Valley, the minute
I put my foot on campus, I
knew there was a war going on.
And so I'm doing the rules
and agreements module,
and I asked the kids,
OK, what's the war?
What war?
The one that's going
on this campus,
because you can't miss it.
And it turned out they didn't
like the playground rules.
So after learning that
rules came from goals,
and then taking
the rules, guessing
at what the goals were, and
realizing that they probably
had the same goals
as the principal,
they put a crew
together of five kids,
went into the principal's
office, and said,
we made a guess as to
what your goals are.
Are these your goals?
Because we agree with
these kind of goals.
Maybe we could work together to
come up with playground rules
that work for us
and work for you,
because we have the same goals.
And within six weeks,
that whole campus
was completely transformed.
There was no more war.
>>You just reminded
me of something
that I didn't really touch upon
under the education heading.
And that was education
for children,
because we spoke
about how adults
will benefit from
the skills for life,
from the various
community projects.
But the same will apply to
the children of the community.
Slowly but surely from
the earliest of age,
engaging in playing into action,
but including in their day
to day activity and play and to
action, community activities,
from growing, planting seeds,
learning the love for planet
Earth to start off with.
And I really believe that
that's a very critical point
of departure from
the earliest of age,
teaching children the
love for planet Earth,
so they grow up into
understanding and being
in harmony with the earth
and not allowing others
to harm our planet.
And that's something
that's desperately
missing in our education
today and starting
from that point of departure.
And then slowly as
they grow older,
they are exposed
to little workshops
and little internships if
you want to call it that,
from planting seedlings to
all kinds of activities.
And it grows from an
hour a day to two hours
to longer and longer.
And by the time they are 10 12,
14 years old, they are engaging
in activities of their
choice that they naturally
are drawn towards, whether
they like to work with wood,
they'll go spend more time
with in the carpentry shop
and learning from the
master wood craftsman
and learning those skills.
So by the time a child is 16
years old in this community,
it would have been exposed to
every facet of life, from arts
and culture to science
and technology,
from creating new materials
to building rockets
to developing free
energy devices
and having a complete
understanding and hands
on experience in
all these areas.
So you can imagine a 16-year-old
in this Contributionism
community will be wiser and more
balanced and more integrated
into their community, won't
have any of the imbalances
that our teenagers have today,
because they would grow up
in a community where everything
is provided that they can
express their natural
born talents and skills,
and they can choose
what they do.
So by the time they're 16, I
say that any 16-year-old will
have more knowledge than all the
professors in the world today,
because they would
have done it hands on
and they will know how it works.
They didn't sit-in a classroom,
reading theory from a book,
not understanding what they say,
trying to remember the stuff
so they can cram
it into an exam,
so they can pass and get
an A on their report,
so they can find a job.
That flies out the window.
So now you've got
real knowledge,
real hands on skills,
and a deep understanding,
and an integrated individual
into the community.
By the time you're
16, you'll already
be pursuing your
passions and your love.
And all the people
in your community
will already recognize
you at that young age
of what you are contributing
to your community,
because you'll
probably already be
doing that as part of
your passion in your day
to day activities.
>>Rebellion will be a
less likely endeavor.
>>There is zero possibility
of youthful rebellion,
because now you're actually
giving the children
an opportunity to
express themselves
the way they want to.
Today's society
prevents our youth
from expressing themselves.
We do exactly the opposite.
>>There is a saying in the
'80s, in a personal development
seminar, that when
people don't feel
that they can make a difference,
they try to be different.
>>So my question is, is
from your perspective,
obviously most of
this seems to be
relative to transition period.
We can see where things will be
when all this is established.
But in regards to
the military and what
do you think as far as
how that will transition?
How that will eventually become
irrelevant or something else,
useful for something else?
How is all that going to
become transitioned into this,
and either become obsolete
or useful in that sense,
relative to how things
are going to be?
Because that's a big--
there's a lot of people,
a lot of jobs, a lot of
people that are really
in the mindset of we need
military, we need defense,
we need all of these things.
>>Thanks for bringing that up.
It's a very important
question that
applies to the police force,
and all the so-called forces.
The Defense Force,
the Air Force.
Now, the word force is a part
of all those words, right?
>>And a big part
of the fear factor
that maintains the
dependent mindset that we're
all-- there again, once
we're all empowered,
there's not going to
be a sense of that.
>>Again, that's part of
the natural progression
and the natural
dissolution or dissolving
of those parts of our society.
Also because all the people
in the military and the police
force and the Air Force
and all these forces,
they're all somebody's
sons and daughters.
And sooner or
later, these people
are going to also wake up to
what their brothers and sisters
and fathers and mothers are
doing in their small towns
and communities.
And they're going to hear about
the abundance that they're
creating and these incredible
places of harmony and unity
and abundance, and they're going
to be amazed by this, realizing
that these guys are developing
technology that is matching
the technology of the military
that is run by the government,
and they're going to
say, well, hold on.
I'm not going to point
a gun at my grandmother.
She's done nothing, right?
So sooner or later,
there's going
to come a time, which I
think has come already.
A lot of people in
the current military,
and especially in Europe and I
know in Germany, for example,
and Austria I think
as well, a lot
of the members of the
police are saying, hold on.
We're not going to march
against or we're not
going to get violent
with the people that
are standing up against the
oppression of the society.
And there have been some
interesting examples
where the police actually
take off their helmets
and they march with the people.
So that's happening more.
And that's going to start
happening more and more.
These soldiers and
people in those positions
are also human beings.
They've been brainwashed
and shoved into situations
that are not natural.
They're not natural
to our human spirit
and to this unity
consciousness that's evolving.
And they're going to
find that very quickly
and feel far more
at home and resonate
with what's happening on the
ground with their families
and their friends in these
towns and villages that
are creating this new reality.
And they're going
to believe, they're
going to find themselves
attracted to that automatically
and naturally, than rather being
attracted toward supporting
a fascist regime that is trying
to invade other countries
and force themselves
on other people.
Say, well, why are we doing that
when we live in paradise here?
No one's threatening us.
We don't have any money.
We don't need money.
Once again, all this war
mongering and violence
is all driven by money
and the control of money.
>>That's the goal.
>>Invasion of countries
and governments
taking over government.
Remember, we discussed that.
John Perkins in his book
"Confessions of an Economic
Hitman," makes it very clear how
this has happened in the past.
So that flies out the window.
That no longer applies.
So this is a rapid
transition from that kind
of violent, invasive
mentality towards an embracing
cooperative mentality.
>>And once we stop discarding
people and everybody is
made to have a worth, that
they're, like you said before,
that every human being is born,
you're already successful.
You can't fail.
>>You're breathing.
You're alive, you're
walking around.
>>So when we give that
back to everybody,
because we don't take away
their worth by saying,
well, your worth is
based on what you have
or we give them their worth back
by their ability to contribute.
>>What I think may also
happen-- and again, this
is just hypothetically
and theory--
but some of these
soldiers and police forces
are going to actually
start protecting
the communities from
invasion and collapse
from outside forces.
Once they see that these
are united communities
doing amazing things, they're
going to say, hold on,
we're going to start
protecting this.
And in fact, they're going to
start serving the community,
serving the people, which is
what they're supposed to do.
Serve to protect the
people, not serve
to protect a fascist
regime and government.
And so that's a turn
around in the way
that that structure of
balance or balancing equation
will play itself out.
>>Civil war of kindness.
>>Once again, Michael.
Thank you.
I'm Richard.
And I'm glad he brought
that up, because I
was going to ask the question.
And during the
conversation, the question
started answering itself.
Because one of
the arguments when
I've talked about any
of this kind of thing,
not specifically Ubuntu,
at the risk of stepping
on some politically
correct toes,
there are people
out there that think
they're called to a
higher thing or whatever
and do real aggressive
meaningful damage to people.
Not for money, not for
any reason, other than you
don't believe like I
believe, and so therefore I'm
going to kill you.
How does that change?
And what does that change?
And can that change
in this format?
>>This is a huge subject.
And some people are going
to struggle with this.
And they're going to
find it a lot easier
to accept once you start to work
in these united communities,
because then they realize,
well, nobody wants to attack us.
They just want to live like us.
And now they know how
to do it, so they're
going to do it for themselves
in their own country.
And when we start creating
these communities in the USA,
they'll be created in
Afghanistan and Iraq
and in Syria and in Iran
and in Russia and in China
and in Australia and in Germany
and in all the countries
of the world.
People are going to do the same.
You're not going to
be able to stop it.
No amount of guns are going
to be able to stop this.
That time is over.
And the people that drive
around wielding their guns
are going to stop doing
that, because there's
no payoff for them.
They're not going to get any
more money, because we're going
to destroy the money supply.
It's not going to flow anymore.
So there's no real reason
for them to be doing it.
One of the questions here
that we haven't covered,
and somebody asked
me this question
I think it was in Austria
when I was there recently,
the last one today.
What about the
elderly and taking
care of people
with disabilities?
Anybody want to
handle that answer?
>>As far as helping
the elderly and taking
care of people with
disabilities and really
taking care of anyone, I think
will become a huge part of what
empowers people.
The more we're all
OK, the more everybody
feels good and benefits and
there again, it's empowerment.
If our main idea in society
is empowerment means
how much money you
have in your pocket,
then we've really deterred
our whole evolution
and our whole mindset.
And I think that that,
out of all the questions,
should be one of the easiest.
You take care of the
people that you love.
And so the people that
have taken care of us,
by the time they get to the
point where they need some help
and taken care of, I think
that's a process that everybody
will be happy to contribute to.
Kids are great as far as
doing things like that.
>>So thank you.
That's a great answer.
But let's take it even
a bit further, right?
So let's just remind ourselves
of the kind of community
we are in.
We are in a community where
we have the best possible
healthcare, where we're
curing disease, where
we have community projects
that deal with every aspect
of our community, and dealing
and helping with elders
and looking after the elders is
part of the community project
and community activity.
So there will be
people that actively
do that all the time,
nonstop, providing
the elders and the
disabled-- first of all,
with healthcare that will
cure their disability.
You know that the technology
is there to regrow organs,
to regrow limbs.
I mean, we can't
even start this.
Some people find that
too weird to believe,
and yet that the knowledge
and the know how exists.
That will come out.
So we will not have that many
disabled and sickly people.
And the fact that
elderly people are today,
they're a problem to
the current system.
The current governments wants
to get rid of the old people,
because they cost them money.
So we put our old people
into old age homes
and we hope they die
as quickly as possible,
so that the government can stop
paying their monthly looking
after them, because
it's just too expensive.
This changes completely.
In integrated,
united communities,
the elderly are the wise.
These are the wise people.
They've got the most
experience and the knowledge
and the wisdom,
especially if they grow up
in these kind of communities.
They've got the most experience.
They pass on their knowledge
and their experience.
And the other thing is that
just because you're old
doesn't mean you don't
want to do stuff.
Just because you
can't walk too well
or carry stuff or
pick things up doesn't
mean you don't like to paint
or do pottery or do things
that you can sit and
chitchat around a table,
have a great time, and spend the
whole day creating things that
actually benefit the community.
So again, it is
up to the elderly
to decide what they will
do for the community
and they'll be supported
in every possible way.
And if people need
wheelchairs, they'll
have the best wheelchairs.
They'll be levitating.
They don't need somebody
to push them along,
because that
technology is there.
So this reminds me of something
that I wanted to come back
to about the security.
Because let's just backtrack
a little bit and talk
about the technology
and the scientists
and the inventors
and the-- what are
we going to-- our
research laboratories
and the free electricity
and all that kind of stuff.
With all these crazy
scientists and inventors,
do you not think
that there are people
that understand advanced
knowledge in weaponry and laser
beams and saser beam
technology and how
to create a laser
beam that takes out
a satellite in a split second?
This is very easy
stuff for people
that have the know
how, that used
to work in the secret or
industrial military complex,
or in the military, that used
to be involved in those things.
And we know those scientists.
We talk to them
on a daily basis.
And these are the
guys that are going
to be helping us develop
the technology for our towns
and our communities.
So in essence, our knowledge
and our advanced technology
will become our defense
mechanism as well.
OK, just understand
how quickly these guys
can develop a weapon
of mass destruction
that uses sound or
saser technology.
I mean, I know people
who can do that
in a week, that can put this
together very quickly if you
know how it works.
And this is why the moment
you open up this and invite
these inventors and crazy
scientists into your community,
it becomes your own
protection device as well.
So again, it's the
moment you take money out
of the system,
everything changes.
Immediately.
Dealing with the elderly and
taking care of the people
with disabilities.
It's not even a
discussion anymore.
It's so obvious how
that gets handled,
so I'm glad that you all
see it and-- see, already?
None of these
questions that we've
posed here-- if I'd
asked you these questions
at the beginning
of this workshop,
you would have probably
said, yeah, I don't know.
I'm scratching my head.
How is this going to work?
By the time we've processed and
gone through these eight hours,
it's not even a
consideration anymore,
because it's just
so insignificant, so
easy to overcome and answer.
But I've challenged
you to come up
with possible hurdles and
questions that are really
difficult to overcome.
And I don't know if
you had something
that you wanted to raise.
>>Thank you, Michael.
Yeah, a question I have
was one of the things I
see that causes the most
division in our world
is religion.
And I'm curious as
to your thoughts
on how the Ubuntu philosophy
influences religion and vice
versa.
When we start to
transition, there's
people with core values, core
beliefs that have been passed
on for thousands of years.
What impact is
that going to have
on both religious communities
and Ubuntu communities
and so forth?
>>Very good and a very
important question.
Thanks for raising that.
Again, it is a
part of our society
that doesn't necessarily
create conflict or division
on its own.
That conflict and division
is imposed on the people
by religious leaders
that tell their followers
that those people
over there are bad.
If you just leave people
to their own device,
they're not going to pick
up arms and run over there
and kill those Christians.
It takes somebody to tell them
that somebody is doing bad
or they believe
something different.
And in essence, when
you start talking
to different religious groups,
fundamentally their core belief
system is the same.
They all believe in a creator,
they all believe in the soul,
and they all believe in
things that actually you
find common ground very
quickly when you start
talking to different religions.
It's not difficult to
find common ground.
But what happens with this
Ubuntu and contributions
and philosophy is
that you actually
avoid that, you bypass that.
You allow people their
own belief system
as long as they don't
impose it on anybody else.
Again, be part of our community.
You can believe
whatever you want,
as long as your belief system
doesn't impose negatively
on the people that contribute
towards the well-being
of your community.
And what that does,
it allows people--
first of all, the oppressive
conditions under which people
live in many of
the countries that
have these sort of
fascist religious belief
systems imposed on
them, that gets lifted.
Suddenly, they no longer have
this desperate oppression
through religion
imposed on them.
And that changes their way,
their personal reaction
and relationship with their
own religious beliefs.
So that evolves
very quickly itself.
How that will happen
I can't predict.
But what I do know is
that by nature, people
don't want to run out
and kill each other.
That is not the human spirit.
That is the inhumane part of
what has been imposed on us.
The way people
behave, or the way
we send our young
people into war
to kill other people
in other countries,
because our governments
have been lured into it
by the banking families.
That's the problem.
And religion is being
used as the tool
of division and separation.
It's one of the best tools.
The moment you get
rid of money, you also
get rid of that divisive tool
that separates and divides
people through religious
belief systems.
I believe we will overcome
that very, very quickly.
And we're going to
see a unification
of different religions
that start to form around
the common denominator
belief structures that
start to unite the people.
And very quickly,
we're going to have
one global, spiritual
belief system that
forgets about the
indoctrinating religions
that we've seen over the
last few thousand years.
>>Hi.
My name is William.
And I want to
thank you, Michael,
and I want to thank my
divinity for choosing
me to be here today.
I feel very honored
and special to be
part of this beautiful group
of people and everybody here.
We have been chosen.
And this is beautiful to be
part of this manifestation that
is already in progress
and nothing can stop it.
I can feel that energy already.
And it's beautiful.
And I was going to ask the
same question as Aaron,
but now I'm inspired to
also add to the answer
that Michael gave you.
And I just feel that freedom
to experience ourselves
from our heart and
doing the services
and creating the products
to better humanity,
there's God himself for
those who believe in God.
There's divinity itself
being manifested here.
I feel the wonderful,
wonderful loving energy
that is transpiring right now in
this beautiful work being done.
>>Thanks, William.
>>Thank you.
>>Thank you for sharing that.
Any other shattering
questions or hurdles
that might collapse
our philosophy here?
>>In reference to the free
energy that you're offering,
you said you've got technology
that operates with the rivers
and streams.
>>Yes.
>>So the small communities-- for
example, Northeast Kansas where
I'm at-- there's several
small communities,
Native American tribes, that
are quite a distance away
from any rivers or streams.
Is there other technology
that's going to offer
that electricity as well?
>>Of course there is.
We all know that the
alternative, eccentric, new
age, whatever word you want to
throw at it technology exists.
Free energy devices
have been developed.
Nikola Tesla's obviously
the most famous inventor
of free energy, that
gave us all free energy
and free electricity around the
world that was removed from us.
And there have been many others.
And same goes for healing
and curing all disease.
The moment we open our
doors to those inventors
and those scientists that
have got those technologies,
they'll be coming
out of the woodwork.
It's going to be like
green grass on a spring day
after the first rain.
You open your doors up
and invite these inventors
and scientists.
They're going to come
out of every nook
and cranny, out of every
country, out of every city.
There are thousands
of them out there.
Right now, they live
in fear, because they
know what has happened to
others that came before them.
Many of them were
quite ignorant.
And they discovered this
technology and the energy,
and then they come out
thinking that the world's going
to sing their praises and
they're going to become famous
and they're going to make
billions of dollars out of it,
only to find out that their
inventions get bought up,
their patents get bought up,
they get offered some money,
they get bribed or threatened,
and they simply disappear.
So that technology, I believe--
and this is why, again,
if you do it from a
political authority,
everything would change.
If I, as a mayor, go
out there and put out
a global invitation to the
inventors and scientists that
have got free energy and
alternative electricity
devices to come out and
share it with us in our town
or come and work in the
research laboratories
that we set up for them to
perfect what they've started
working on, they're going
to be coming to us in droves
to share with us their
inventions, because ultimately
they're creative souls.
They're doing this
because they were either
given this information or
they discovered it or found it
in a dream or somehow came upon
this knowledge and information.
And they want to share
it with the world.
And just like other
creative people,
they've been
prevented from sharing
their creation with the world.
They want their creations
to be shared by the people.
They want it to land in
the hands of the people.
They don't want it to land
in some obscure room hidden
from society.
>>OK.
This might open up a
whole other can of worms,
so you might need
to edit this out,
but earlier you alluded to the
fact that above the banksters
and above the families,
there's another sort
of power structure, which
maybe you might think of as ETs
perhaps.
But what happens with that?
What happens to them?
What's the vision
for-- I totally
have a vision of this
enlightened society,
and I even have a vision for
the banksters to come aboard,
many of them, except maybe
the sociopathic ones.
But do you have
a sense or do you
have a vision or an inside
view to this potential future?
And what happens
to-- I just can't
imagine these beings
giving up control
of this planet, this garden
that we have, that we live on,
this beautiful planet.
I know that's a huge
question, but I just
thought I'd toss that
out there to you.
>>Yeah.
That is a big question.
And I'm not sure if
I have a very clear
and definitive answer for that.
What comes to mind
immediately is
that whoever these beings are
that have been somehow pulling
the strings over
those that impose
their control over humanity
here from a higher level
seem to be utilizing or using
humanity in various ways,
possibly using people as food.
That's a definite possibility.
They're possibly using
us as an energy source.
And that energy source comes
from our state of being,
our lower consciousness,
fear-based beings.
The moment we elevate ourselves
to a higher consciousness,
a unity consciousness,
lose the fear,
and understand that we are
part of the infinite creation,
that we never really
die, and lose the fear,
we start to dissolve any of
this potential control that
is imposed to us by lower
consciousness beings that
might have had
developed technology
that can traverse space.
Well, we're going to
get there very quickly
and get to higher
levels of consciousness
and higher levels of
technology and understanding
and utilizing our ability
to reverse space as well.
So not only are we going
to match their ability
to control us, we're going to
surpass that very, very quickly
by elevating ourselves to a
higher state of consciousness,
a state of unity
consciousness, and overcoming
any of the negative control that
has been imposed on us because
of being an unconscious species.
The moment we become conscious,
that kind of level of control
can no longer be imposed on us.
That's how I see it.
I might be completely
off the mark.
I hope I'm not.
So I suppose that brings us
to the end of this workshop,
and ending with a really
heavyweight question, which
I think is probably an
appropriate way to end this,
because we've covered in the
last two days and eight hours
a huge, vast areas of
information that started
with some really informative
and enlightening information,
opening up a deep understanding
of the origins of money
and how it became a tool of
control, how it was imposed
on humanity, the rise
of the banking families
and the royal
bloodlines and the dark,
sinister activities
of the governments,
which could be seen as a
depressing lot of information.
But I think we've
come out of that
and seen it as a foundation and
a part of liberating knowledge
and information that gives us
the foundation from which we
can build these
future communities
of abundance and united
people that create
abundance in beautiful
communities that work together
in cooperation
and collaboration,
getting to the point of how to
do it, how to use communities,
and the political
arms to work together.
I believe that the
political arena
is a tool we can
use and should use
and must use to help us
possibly fast track this much
quicker than we could have
imagined, because we use
the tools that they created
against us to actually serve us
for a change.
And the political arena
can serve us very quickly
if we use it cleverly.
So I suggest that we do that.
And we can see
the implementation
of these first utopian
communities very,
very quickly,
possibly within months
based on the elections coming
up in various countries,
including South Africa, the
local municipal elections
in 2016.
So to end on a
high note, I would
like to say this-- that all
this knowledge that we've
taken and brought together into
this room and into the studio
and shared with ourselves and
captured on camera for others
to share and absorb and resonate
with, it ends on the high note.
We can achieve all of this-- and
it starts in one little town.
That's how powerful this
simple philosophy is.
It starts with one little town
that will be the first domino
to fall and start to bring down
the global, capitalist control
over humanity and allow us
all to live in communities
of our choice, in utopian
societies of abundance
and harmony and unity.
Thanks for participating
in this workshop.
I really appreciate
your time and energy.
It was fantastic
sharing it with you
and everyone that is going to
be watching this in their homes.
Thank you for watching this.
And let's make this a reality.
Remember, we are the
creators of our own reality.
It's up to us what we
do with this information
into the future.
Let's start manifesting
this reality for ourselves.
Thanks for watching.
Go out there and share this
with everyone you know,
because once they've heard
it, they can never unhear it.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Thanks, everyone.
Cheers.
Thanks so much.